This is an experiment in how to get beyond "prompting" with LLMs and surface more powerful interactions with users.

The center of the coordinate plane displays a short excerpt from David Foster Wallace's "This is Water." The axes of the coordinate plane represent different styles and tones of writing. By dragging the cursor around, the user can apply transformations to the tone and style of the writing. The Y axis makes the text more Ominous or Auspicious. The X axis makes the text more Metaphorical or Literal.

In the case of this prototype, the texts were all pre-generated by prompting with Claude 3 Opus. I pre-generated them because I wanted users to get the feeling of instantly transforming the text, but of course you could modify this to generate it live. I have placed the prompts below in case you are interested.

As this kind of interaction advances, this kind of user engagement wouldn't happen through prompting, but through the direct manipulation of the latent space. This will become possible as we learn more about the function of specific LLMs. Hopefully we will eventually be able to map them to the extent that you could manipulate concepts like "ominousness" or "literalness" directly in the weights.

This experiment was inspired by the TL;DR scale from Kawandeep Virdee: https://whichlight.github.io/tldr-scale/.
Here is the full text of David Foster Wallace's "This is Water" commencement speech: https://fs.blog/david-foster-wallace-this-is-water/.

Prompts:

Moving above the X axis: Rewrite the above passage so it has the same message, structure, and style, but a slightly more ominous tone. Keep the passage the same length.

Moving below the X axis: Rewrite the above passage so it has the same message, structure, and style, but a slightly more auspicious tone. Keep the passage the same length.

Moving to the right of the Y axis: Rewrite the above passage so it has the same message, structure, and tone, but a slightly more literal style. Keep the passage the same length.

Moving to the left of the Y axis: Rewrite the above passage so it has the same message, structure, and tone, but a slightly more metaphorical style. Keep the passage the same length.
